In the Data Exploration, firstly, remove the "price_outcome = Equal", because those values can not use to predit the property which can sell higer or lower. Next, remove those days_on_market with negative values and days_on_market > 500, because we only interested in how fast to sell property in the market without those can not sell. Then use property_size fills those missing values to minimize the effect of extreme values. Next step, use visualization to quick look the distribution of data. It is obviously to see their are more higher price outcome property compare to lower one, and in the distribution of listed price and days on market, the formor price is between 0 to 2 millions, the latter one is from 0 to 200 days. Apart from that, most number of beds, baths, parks, properties size sell with best price are in 4, 3, 3, and 600 respectively. In the property classification, there are higher proportion of higher price in house and unit. However, there are  higher proportion of lower price in penthouse and specialist farm  from property_sub_classification.


Text preparation

In the Text preparation, prepare the text for analysis by using NLTK to clean the listing descriptions with removing noise and stopwords. Next, apply entiment analysis to chase emotional tones that might correlate with higher or lower price outcomes by scoring each description. However, when visualize those efforts, it can not see the significant difference among outcomes. In the boxplot, it seems that all higher and lower price outcomes close 1, and it almost in the same distributions without difference. Therefore, decide to generate new features and build model which helps to analysis the data more clearly. 


Feature generation

Beyond original variables, generated three new features, Price Ratio, Hot Suburb Flag and listing_month. Price Ratio helps compare lised price and market price. Calaulation of Price Ratio is listed_price/suburb_median_price_filled to show the proportion of properties' price among the suburb median price, and it assists to see the property is higer or lower than the market price.
Hot Suburb Flag hleps to find where easy to sell in higher price, using 1 as hot suburb and 0 as not hot suburb. The last one is Listing Month, it helps to analysis which months that properties can sell higher price, and whether it infulents by seasons.

Apart fom that, fill missing suburb median prices by median values per property type and clean extreme values carefully by keeping only the central 98%.

In the visualizations, it is obviously to see proporties sell in higher price from May to September. 




Model building & evaluation


In the model building stage, Random Forest was selected as the primary model due to its robustness, ability to handle mixed data types, and resistance to overfitting. The classification target was binary, indicating whether the property price outcome was “Higher” or “Lower.”

Due to robustness, Random Forest was the primary model to handle the data without overfitting which compared to decition tree. The classification target was binary, and the property price outcome was“Higher” or “Lower.

In the training part, use 100 trees and set 42 random seeds. In addition, use five matrix performances, precision, recall, F1 score, confusion matrix, and ROC-AUC, to evaluate. 0 is lower price outcome and 1 is higher price outcome. In the higher price outcome, it has higher scores in recall, 
f1-score; in contrast, it has lower scores in precision which compared to the lower price outcome. In the ROC Curve, the AUC is 0.902 which means Random Forest was good at dividing the higher price outcome and the lower
price outcome. 

When it cames to seting parameter grid for tuning, increasing the number of trees, limiting tree depth and increasing split threshold to make trees more conservative. To improve performance, use GridSearchCV with 5-fold cross-validation. Ensure the model avoids overfitting. In the Tuned Random Forest Report, because of avoiding overfitting, the performance clearly dropped after tuning the parameters. In the ROC Curve, the AUC is 0.82. It is not better before parameter adjustment.

Apart from above, it shows the rank of Random Forest features importance. The new feature, such as price ratio and listing month, shows the significant infulence in the model; however, hot suburb flag shows limit infulence.


Conclusions & Recommendations
The Random Forest model performed well, identifying key drivers like price ratio and listing month.

On the one hand, the Random Forest model shows wll-performed and identifies main features well such as price ratio and listing month. On the other hand, there is minamize impact by descriptions which shows from sentiment scores. Property agencies should put more effort in pricing strategies which link to market medians and seasonal listing timing (May–September) to increase profit. I recommend that collect wealth neighborhood and buyer data to expand future models and better capture more realiztic market.









